Man charged in glass bottle attack on Jewish students in Pittsburgh now accused in earlier attack
A man accused of having assaulted two Jewish students with a glass bottle on the campus of the University of Pittsburgh is now accused of having thrown a bottle at two people associated with another university the day before.

Pope to meet Papua New Guinea Catholics who embrace both Christianity and Indigenous beliefs
Pope Francis’s visit to Papua New Guinea will take him to a remote part of the South Pacific island nation where Christianity is a recent addition to traditional spiritual beliefs developed over millenia that remain deeply ingrained.

Pope arrives in Papua New Guinea for the second leg of his Southeast Asia and Oceania trip
Pope Francis has arrived in Papua New Guinea for the second leg of his four-nation trip through Southeast Asia and Oceania.

A Christian school appeals its ban on competing after it objected to a transgender player
A Vermont Christian school that is barred from participating in the state sports league after it withdrew its girls basketball team from a playoff game because a transgender student was playing on the opposing team has taken its case to a federal appeals court.

An Amish woman dies 18 years after being severely injured in a deadly schoolhouse shooting
A woman who was severely injured when a gunman killed five girls and wounded her and four other girls during an attack on their one-room Amish schoolhouse in Pennsylvania has died 18 years later.

Maine law thwarts impact of school choice decision, lawsuit says
A Christian school at the center of a Supreme Court decision that requires Maine to include religious schools in a state tuition program is challenging a state antidiscrimination law.

Pope and imam of Southeast Asia’s largest mosque make joint call to fight violence, protect planet
Pope Francis has joined the grand imam of Southeast Asia’s largest mosque in pledging to work together to fight religiously inspired violence and protect the planet.

Takeaways from AP’s report on JD Vance and the Catholic postliberals in his circle of influence
Ohio Sen. JD Vance’s 2019 conversion to Catholicism put him in close touch with a Catholic intellectual movement known as postliberalism.

JD Vance’s Catholicism helped shape his views. So did this little-known group of Catholic thinkers
Ohio Sen. JD Vance’s 2019 conversion to Catholicism helped shape his political worldview. It also put him in close touch with a Catholic intellectual movement known as postliberalism.

Iraqi women fear rise in child marriages as lawmakers consider giving conservative clerics more say
Rights groups and many Iraqi women fear the country’s parliament will open the door to child marriages as lawmakers consider legal changes that would give religious authorities more power over family law.

The pope urges Indonesia to live up to its promise of ‘harmony in diversity’
Pope Francis has urged Indonesia to live up to its promise of “harmony in diversity” and fight religious intolerance.

Condoms can’t be trusted and boys don’t cry in Catholic Paraguay’s first sex ed program
In predominantly Catholic Paraguay, with the highest rate of teenage pregnancy in South America, the Ministry of Education has approved the country’s first national sex education curriculum.

In Asia, pope urges Indonesia to live up to promise of ‘harmony in diversity,’ fight extremism
Pope Francis has urged Indonesia to live up to its promise of “harmony in diversity” and fight religious intolerance.

Florida man sentenced for attacking Jewish teens
A Florida man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison after pleading no contest to attacking four Jewish teenagers walking along a road while dressed for a religious holiday in 2022.

A Pakistani religious leader is tried in his absence for allegedly threatening Geert Wilders
Dutch prosecutors have demanded a 14-year sentence for a Pakistani Muslim leader accused of inciting the murder of anti-Islam lawmaker Geert Wilders.

Is Usha Vance’s Hindu identity an asset or a liability to the Trump-Vance campaign?
Usha Vance’s presence in the Trump-Vance campaign has energized some Indian Americans, particularly Hindu American conservatives.

A Norwegian princess marries an American self-styled shaman in front of a star-studded audience
Social media influencers, reality stars and TV personalities were among the guests as the Norwegian king’s eldest child, Princess Märtha Louise, married an American self-professed shaman in a wedding ceremony at the culmination of three days of festivities.

Catholic diocese sues US government, worried some foreign-born priests might be forced to leave
For more than a year, religious organizations have lobbied Congress and the Biden administration to fix a sudden procedural change in how the government processes green cards for religious workers from abroad.

Man charged with assault on 2 Jewish students on University of Pittsburgh campus
A man has been charged with aggravated assault in an alleged glass bottle attack on two Jewish students on the University of Pittsburgh campus.

Catholics face a shortage of priests. But one Indonesian seminary is overwhelmed with applicants
Arnoldus Yansen thought for certain he was going to become a Catholic priest, just like his older brother, cousin and uncle.

What to know about the rescued hostage’s Bedouin community in Israel
The rescue from Gaza of hostage Qaid Farhan Alkadi, who belongs to the Bedouin community in Israel, has put the focus on a minority group that has largely existed on the margins of Israeli society.

Afghan refugee accused in a case that shocked Albuquerque’s Muslim community reaches plea agreement
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — An Afghan refugee who was convicted earlier this year of first-degree murder in one of three fatal shootings that shook Albuquerque’s Muslim community has reached a plea agreement that could resolve criminal charges stemming from the other two killings.

Trump blasts women who accused him of sexual misconduct and verdict that found him liable
Shortly after appearing in court to appeal a decision that found him liable for sexual abuse, Donald Trump appeared before the press Friday to assail his accusers and recount a string of past allegations of misconduct that Trump says “didn’t happen.”

Trump heads to a deep-red part of swing-state Wisconsin to talk about the economy
Former President Donald Trump is heading to Wisconsin for a rally that’s intended to focus heavily on the economy, marking his first trip to the mostly rural central part of the key battleground state.

Democrats go to new heights to spotlight Project 2025, flying banners over college football stadiums
Democrats have denounced the conservative Project 2025 blueprint in hundreds of ads and billboards, printed it in oversized book form as a convention prop and mentioned it frequently.

Judge delays Donald Trump’s sentencing in hush money case until after November election
Judge Juan M. Merchan, who is also weighing a defense request to overturn the verdict on immunity grounds, delayed Trump’s sentencing until Nov. 26.

Iowa judge rules against Libertarian candidates, keeping their names off the ballot for Congress
A judge has ruled that three Libertarian candidates seeking U.S. House seats in Iowa will not appear on the ballot this November.

Tight race for control of Congress could be decided by just a handful of campaigns
The race for control of Congress is as close as ever. Lawmakers are returning to Washington for a three-week legislative sprint, away from the campaign trail where races have become “trench warfare” and a seat-by-seat slog.

As US colleges raise the stakes for protests, activists are weighing new strategies
The stakes have gone up for students protesting the war in Gaza as U.S. colleges roll out new security measures and protest guidelines this fall in hopes of avoiding disruptions like last spring’s pro-Palestinian demonstrations, which led to some 3,200 arrests.

New Hampshire Democratic candidates for governor target Republican Kelly Ayotte in final debate
Republican Kelly Ayotte wasn’t on the debate stage Friday, but New Hampshire’s Democratic gubernatorial hopefuls mentioned her by name at least a dozen times.

Stakeholder in Trump’s Truth Social parent company wins court ruling over share transfer
A federal judge in Delaware has ruled in favor of a firm seeking assurance that it will be able to sell its minority stake in the parent company of former president Donald Trump’s Truth Social platform.

News organizations seek unsealing of plea deal with 9/11 defendants
News organizations are asking the military commission at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to make public the plea deal struck with the 9/11 defendants.

Hawaii can ban guns on beaches, an appeals court says
A U.S. appeals court ruling says Hawaii can enforce a law banning firearms on its world-famous beaches, but not at other so-called sensitive places, including banks.

Democratic primary for governor highlights Tuesday’s elections in Delaware
A Democratic gubernatorial contest pitting Delaware’s lieutenant governor against the chief executive of the state’s largest county is the marquee race in Tuesday’s primary elections.

Swirling federal investigations test New York City mayor’s ability to govern
New York City Mayor Eric Adams is facing mounting questions over his ability to govern after federal investigators seized phones from multiple officials in his administration.

California governor vetoes bill to make immigrants without legal status eligible for home loans
California Gov. Gavin Newsom has vetoed a bill that would have made some immigrants without legal status eligible for loans under a state program offering assistance to first-time homebuyers.

ACLU plans to spend $1.3M in educate Montana voters about state Supreme Court candidates
The American Civil Liberties Union plans to spend $1.3 million on campaign advertising to educate Montana voters about where state Supreme Court candidates stand on abortion and other civil rights issues.

A Navy officer is demoted after sneaking a satellite dish onto a warship to get the internet
U.S. Navy investigators say an officer who wanted the internet so she and other enlisted officers could scroll social media and check sports scores while deployed had an unauthorized Starlink satellite dish installed on a warship and dubbed it “Stinky.”

Texas Republican attorney general sues over voter registration efforts in Democrat strongholds
Texas Republican Attorney General Ken Paxton has sued two of the state’s largest counties to block efforts to register voters ahead of the November general election.

Abortion rights supporters in South Dakota blast state’s video of abortion laws
Abortion rights supporters in South Dakota say doctors can’t rely on a new video from the state and mandated by a law that its Republican prime sponsor said gives clear guidance to physicians for life-threatening situations.

Judge gives US regulators until December to propose penalties for Google’s illegal search monopoly
A federal judge on Friday gave the U.S. Justice Department until the end of the year to outline how Google should be punished for illegally monopolizing the internet search market and then prepare to present its case for imposing the penalties next spring.

Supreme Court Justice Alito reports German princess gave him $900 concert tickets
Justice Samuel Alito has reported that he accepted $900 worth of concert tickets from a German princess, but disclosed no trips paid for by other people.

Missouri abortion-rights amendment could be axed from the ballot after ruling
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (AP) — A Missouri judge on Friday ruled that an abortion-rights campaign did not meet legal requirements to qualify for the November ballot, potentially thwarting a yearslong effort to undo the state’s near-total abortion ban.

Former Vice President Dick Cheney says he will vote for Kamala Harris
Former Vice President Dick Cheney will be voting for Kamala Harris for president. His daughter Liz Cheney, who endorsed Harris on Wednesday, first announced her father’s endorsement of Harris during an event in Texas on Friday.

Nevada’s only Native American youth shelter gets lifeline as it fights for survival
Nevada’s only shelter for Native American youth will remain open through the end of the year thanks to a quarter-million dollar donation from the NV Energy Foundation.

Audit finds Vermont failed to complete steps to reduce risk from natural disasters such as flooding
A new report says Vermont has failed to complete many actions in its five-year hazard mitigation plan aimed at reducing the risk from natural disasters such as flooding.

Watchdogs ask judge to remove from Utah ballots a measure that would boost lawmakers’ power
Government watchdog groups are asking a judge to remove from the Utah ballot a measure that would give lawmakers more power over citizen initiatives.

North Carolina GOP leaders reach spending deal to clear private school voucher waitlist
North Carolina’s Republican legislative leaders announced on Friday that they reached a spending deal to fund various programs.

Texas sues to stop a rule that shields the medical records of women who seek abortions elsewhere
Texas is suing to try to block a federal rule that shields the medical records of women from criminal investigations if they cross state lines to get an abortion where it is legal.

Turkey Arrests Over 100 Suspected Members Of Islamic State
Turkey arrested over 100 suspected members of the Islamic State group this week, authorities said Friday, the latest mass detention targeting the terror organisation.

3rd Suspect Detained In Vienna Over Plot To Attack Taylor Swift Concert
Austria on Friday said it had detained a third alleged Islamic State sympathiser over a plot to carry out a suicide attack at a Taylor Swift concert in Vienna.

Quad Foreign Ministers Warn Of Terrorists Using New Technology
The Quad foreign ministers have reinforced their call for concerted international action against Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), as well as Al-Qa'ida and the Islamic State outfit.

After US, Now Canada Puts Iran's Revolutionary Guards On Terror List
Iran condemned Canada's listing of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organization as "an unwise and unconventional politically-motivated step," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Nasser Kanaani was quoted as saying.

4 Arrested Over Moscow Attack That Killed 143, Says Islamic State Group
The Islamic State group said Friday four of its members had been arrested after they attacked a concert hall near Moscow killing 143 people, a day after Russia blamed Ukraine.

Russia Refuses To Comment On ISIS Links To Moscow Terror Attack
The Kremlin refused to comment Monday on the Islamic State group's claims that it was behind the deadliest attack in Russia in two decades, as rescuers searched for bodies amid the rubble of the burnt-out Moscow concert hall.

Greece to expand fence, surveillance at border with Turkey
Greece says it will gradually extend a fence along its land border with Turkey and increase surveillance measures following an increase in illegal immigration from its neighbor.

Republican Michels’ position on immigration questioned
MILWAUKEE (AP) — Republican gubernatorial candidate Tim Michels once led an organization that fought a proposal to get tough on people who were living in the country illegally, but he’s campaigning as someone opposed to illegal immigration.

Washington justices blast racist questioning by prosecutor
SEATTLE (AP) — The Washington Supreme Court on Thursday unanimously overturned a man’s conviction for assaulting police officers, blasting a series of racist remarks by the prosecutor who handled the case.

Cyprus plans surveillance system to stem migrant crossings
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) — Cyprus will install an electronic surveillance system along the buffer zone that divides the island nation along ethnic lines, to stem a surge in illegal immigration through the breakaway north, the government said Tuesday.

Budd runs 1st ad in Senate primary; another PAC pans McCrory
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — Republican U.S. Senate candidate Ted Budd began running his first primary election commercial statewide Wednesday, highlighting the congressman’s endorsement from former President Donald Trump and portraying himself as tough on illegal immigration.

Florida OKs bill aimed at keeping immigrants out of state
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — All Florida government agencies would be barred from doing business with transportation companies that bring immigrants to the state who are in the country illegally under a bill sent to Gov.

Migrant minors dispute pits Florida against Catholic Church
MIAMI (AP) — The debate over whether to deter or accommodate minors arriving at the U.S.-Mexico border without their parents has pitted Florida’s Catholic governor against the state’s highest-ranking Roman Catholic.

Indiana attorney general billing Texas trip to taxpayers
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — Indiana Attorney General Todd Rokita took a state-paid trip to the U.S-Mexican border last week and attended a Donald Trump rally along the way.

DeSantis: Freedom is good, COVID mandates, lockdowns are bad
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis made clear in his State of the State speech that he likes teachers, first responders and freedom and he doesn’t like Dr.

Trump endorses Hungary’s Orban ahead of tight election
Former U.S. President Donald Trump has endorsed Hungary’s right-wing populist Prime Minister Viktor Orban, offering his “complete support” to the controversial leader.

US has reunited 100 children taken from parents under Trump
A Biden administration effort to reunite children and parents who were separated under President Donald Trump’s zero-tolerance border policy has made increasing progress as it nears the end of its first year.

Channel deaths fuel UK-France tensions over migrant boats
The deaths of at least 27 people in the English Channel is fueling tensions between the U.K. and France over how to stop migrants from crossing the world’s busiest waterway in small boats.

Female former Afghan lawmakers, judges meet Greek PM
ATHENS, Greece (AP) — Six female former lawmakers and judges from Afghanistan were received Friday by Greece’s prime minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, after fleeing their homeland in the wake of the Taliban takeover.

Man accused of threatening 2 US senators to remain in jail
A man upset over the impeachment of former President Donald Trump, illegal immigration and the direction he thinks the country is headed is accused of threatening the lives of Alaska’s two Republican U.S. senators.

Michigan State sued by quiz creator over Hitler question streamed on videoboards at football game
Michigan State has been sued over the Adolf Hitler question that appeared on Spartan Stadium screens before a game last season, with the quiz’s creator saying the university didn’t have permission to use its product that “was not created for a mass-market use at an American college football game.”

4 Germans caught marking Hitler’s birthday outside Nazi dictator’s birthplace in Austria
Police say four Germans were caught laying white roses in memory of Adolf Hitler at the house where the Nazi dictator was born in western Austria on the anniversary of his birth, and one gave a Hitler salute as they posed for photos.

Skeletons from a former Hitler base were too decayed to determine who they were and how they died
Polish prosecutors have ended an investigation into skeletons found at a site where German dictator Adolf Hitler and other Nazi leaders spent time during World War II because the advanced decay made it impossible to determine the cause of death.

Lazio fan arrested for Hitler salute as supporters sing fascist songs in Munich beer hall
One Italian fan among about 100 Lazio supporters who sang fascist songs in the beer hall where Adolf Hitler founded the Nazi party has been arrested and fined for giving a Hitler salute.

Michigan State suspends employee involved with allowing Hitler’s image to be shown on videoboards
Michigan State athletic director Alan Haller said he has suspended an employee involved in allowing Adolf Hitler’s image to be shown on videoboards before playing No. 2 Michigan.

The last WWII vets converge on Normandy for D-Day and fallen friends and to cement their legacy
Across Normandy, France, where the largest-ever land, sea and air armada punctured Adolf Hitler’s defenses in western Europe on D-Day, Allied veterans of World War II are the VVIPs of 80th anniversary celebrations this week.

How AP covered the D-Day landings and lost photographer Bede Irvin in the battle for Normandy
On D-Day, The Associated Press had reporters, artists and photographers in the air, on the choppy waters of the English Channel, in London, and at English departure ports and airfields covering the Allied assault in Normandy.

A planned float in NYC’s India Day Parade is anti-Muslim and should be removed, opponents say
A float in Sunday’s upcoming India Day Parade in New York City that celebrates a Hindu temple built over a razed mosque in India is being criticized as anti-Muslim.

Benzema files defamation suit against France’s interior minister over Muslim Brotherhood allegations
Karim Benzema has filed a defamation lawsuit against France’s Interior Minister Gérald Darmanin, who accused the soccer star of having links to the Muslim Brotherhood.

Afghan refugee pleads no contest to 2 murders in case that shocked Albuquerque’s Muslim community
An Afghan refugee convicted of first-degree murder in one of three fatal shootings in 2022 that shocked Albuquerque’s Muslim community has pleaded no contest to charges stemming from the other two killings.

Millions of Shiite Muslim pilgrims head to Iraq’s Karbala to mark the death of Imam Hussein
Millions of Shiite Muslims have packed the streets of the Iraqi city of Karbala on their annual pilgrim to mark the death of Prophet Muhammad’s grandson, Hussein who became a symbol of resistance when he refused to pledge allegiance to the Umayyad caliphate.

Federal agency cracks down on a predatory lending practice that often hurts Somali Muslims
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is pledging to scrutinize contract for deed lending, a form of alternative or seller financing in which a private seller or investor group comes to a loan agreement with a buyer without many of the typical banking and mortgage regulations and protections.

Iran’s Shiite Muslims commemorate the mourning day of Ashoura with processions
Iranian Shiite Muslims are commemorating Ashoura, a remembrance of the 7th century martyrdom of the Prophet Muhammad’s grandson, Hussein, that gave birth to their faith.

Shiite Muslims commemorate martyrdom of Prophet Muhammad’s grandson
Iranian Shiite Muslims on Tuesday commemorated Ashoura, a remembrance of the 7th century martyrdom of the Prophet Muhammad’s grandson, Hussein.

Muslims in Asia celebrate Eid al-Adha with sacrifice festival and traditional feast
Muslims in Asia are celebrating Eid al-Adha, or the Feast of Sacrifice, one of the biggest holidays in the Islamic calendar.

What’s the Hajj, the Islamic pilgrimage, and why is it significant for Muslims?
Once a year, Muslims coming to Saudi Arabia unite in a series of religious rituals and acts of worship as they perform Hajj, one of the pillars of Islam.

Muslim pilgrims continue the ritual of stoning the devil at Hajj
Muslim pilgrims carried out a symbolic stoning of the devil in Saudi Arabia for the second day on Monday as they were wrapping up their final days of the Hajj pilgrimage in the deadly summer heat.

The veteran Palestinian leader Abbas says he will visit Gaza and calls on Muslim leaders to join him
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas has pledged to travel to Gaza as the Israel-Hamas war rages. Abbas addressed the Turkish parliament in Ankara on Thursday.

Pakistani court sentences Christian man to death for posting hateful content against Muslims
A court in Pakistan sentenced a Christian man to death for sharing what it said was hateful content against Muslims on social media after one of the worst mob attacks on Christians in the eastern Punjab province last year.

Florida man gets over 3 years in prison for attacking a Muslim mail carrier and grabbing her hijab
A South Florida man has been sentenced to three years and one month in federal prison for attacking a Muslim U.S. Postal Service worker and trying to pull off her hijab.

India’s parliament has fewer Muslims as strength of Modi’s party grows
The political power of Muslims is declining in the world’s largest democracy. Tensions between Hindus and Muslims in India are not new, but they have gotten worse under Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Hakeem Jeffries makes pitch for Harris-Walz ticket, likens Trump to a jilted boyfriend
The Senior Democrat in the House made a passionate defense of the Harris-Walz ticket when he addressed delegates at the Democratic National Convention on Wednesday.

Harris steps into the limelight. And the coconut trees and memes have followed
If you’re trying to get up to speed on Vice President Kamala Harris’ swift emergence as Democrats’ possible nominee this fall, you really need to know your memes.

Early Harris-Walz rallies feature big crowds, talk of ‘joy’ and unsolicited GOP counterprogramming
The first big campaign blitz by Democrats Kamala Harris and Tim Walz is in the books.

House Republicans vote to rebuke Kamala Harris over administration’s handling of border policy
House Republicans are moving quickly to emphasize Vice President Kamala Harris’s role in the Biden administration’s handling of the U.S. border with Mexico.

Harris calls Trump’s appearance at Arlington a ‘political stunt’ that ‘disrespected sacred ground’
Vice President Kamala Harris says former President Donald Trump “disrespected sacred ground” in his recent appearance at Arlington National Cemetery, where the Republican nominee took and distributed images despite a federal prohibition on campaign activity on the grounds.

Harris accepts rules for Sept. 10 debate with Trump on ABC, including microphone muting
Vice President Kamala Harris has accepted the rules set forth for next week’s debate with former President Donald Trump, although the Democratic nominee says the decision not to keep both candidates’ microphones live throughout the matchup will be to her disadvantage.

Harris and Trump squabble over muted mics at upcoming debate
Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald Trump have thrown into question whether they will meet for a debate next month as scheduled, with the presidential nominees in disagreement over whether microphones should be muted.

Trump accuses Kamala Harris and Joe Biden of presiding over ‘an economic reign of terror’
Donald Trump rails against the Biden administration over inflation in the most dramatic terms, accusing Kamala Harris and President Joe Biden of having presided over “an economic reign of terror” and “committing one financial atrocity after another.”

2 men accused of plotting Islamic State-inspired attack against Jews in England
Two men accused of plotting to gun down Jews in an Islamic State-inspired attack in northwest England have been held without bail after appearing in a London court.

Dagestani Jews look to rebuild after extremist attacks in the restive region of southern Russia
Jews in the predominantly Muslim region of Dagestan in southern Russia say they are determined to regroup and rebuild following a deadly attack by Islamic militants on Christian and Jewish houses of worship in two cities last weekend.

Ultra-Orthodox Jews burn bread on street fires on Passover Eve in Jerusalem
Ultra-Orthodox Jews in Jerusalem’s religious Mea Shearim neighbourhood burned leavened bread, known as hametz, on Passover eve, Monday.

A new Holocaust Museum shows how three-quarters of Dutch Jews were deported and killed
Netherlands’ National Holocaust Museum opens on Sunday. It tells the story of Dutch victims of the Holocaust.

Antisemitism and safety fears surge among US Jews, survey finds
Nearly two-thirds of American Jews feel less secure in the U.S. than they did a year ago. That’s according to the latest annual survey from the American Jewish Committee.

During the Israel-Hamas war, Jews will soon celebrate Purim — one of their most joyous holidays
Purim is widely depicted as the most joyful of Jewish holidays — highlighted by celebrations that include costumes, skits and noisemakers.

Tunisian Jews scale back annual pilgrimage to ancient synagogue because of security concerns
Jewish Tunisians who organize an annual pilgrimage to one of the world’s oldest synagogues are planning a scaled-down event next month.

Pope reaffirms Christians’ special relationship with Jews amid rising antisemitism, Gaza war
Pope Francis has reaffirmed Christians’ special relationship with Jews amid rising antisemitism since the outbreak of the Gaza war in a letter to the Jews of Israel.

Trump says Jews who vote for Democrats ‘hate Israel’ and their religion
Former President Donald Trump on Monday charged that Jews who vote for Democrats “hate Israel” and hate “their religion,” igniting a firestorm of criticism from the White House and Jewish leaders.
 
With antisemitism rising as the Israel-Hamas war rages, Europe’s Jews worry
Antisemitism is spiking across Europe after Hamas’ Oct. 7 massacre and Israel’s bombardment of Gaza, worrying Jews from London to Geneva and Berlin.

Israeli nationalists march in Jerusalem as a far-right minister boasts of Jewish prayer at key site
Thousands of ultranationalist Israelis have marched through a sensitive Palestinian area of Jerusalem in an annual procession, chanting racist slogans.

UN assembly approves resolution granting Palestine new rights and reviving its UN membership bid
The U.N. General Assembly voted by a wide margin on Friday to grant new “rights and privileges” to Palestine and called on the Security Council to reconsider Palestine’s request to become the 194th member of the United Nations.

NYC man charged with hate crime after police say he yelled ‘Free Palestine’ and stabbed a Jewish man
A New York City man has been arrested and charged with a hate crime after police say he yelled “Free Palestine” and then stabbed a Jewish man near a synagogue over the weekend.

Hundreds of graduates walk out of Harvard commencement chanting ‘Free, free Palestine’ over Gaza war
Hundreds of students in graduation robes walked out of the Harvard commencement chanting “Free, free Palestine” and “Let them walk” after weeks of protests on campus over the Israeli assault in Gaza.

Israeli envoy denounces UN backing of resolution granting Palestine new rights, shreds copy of UN Charter
The U.N. General Assembly voted by a wide margin on Friday to grant new “rights and privileges” to Palestine and called on the Security Council to favorably reconsider its request to become the 194th member of the United Nations.

University student who yelled ‘Free Palestine’ reportedly deported as UAE weighs Israel-Hamas war
At the graduation ceremony of New York University Abu Dhabi this May, a student wearing the traditional Palestinian black-and-white keffiyeh scarf shouted “Free Palestine!”

Oregon ban on hard-to-trace ghost guns goes into effect Sunday
Largely untraceable firearms known as ghost guns will be banned across Oregon starting Sunday after a federal judge denied a legal challenge to the prohibition.

Gun rights activists target new Massachusetts law with lawsuit and repeal effort
Massachusetts gun rights activists are vowing to pursue repealing a gun bill signed into law by Democratic Gov. Maura Healey.

Georgia lawmaker urges panel to consider better firearms safety rules to deter child gun deaths
Georgia gun owners, lawmakers and national advocates have been discussing how to encourage people to secure their firearms.

State Fair of Texas is sued by state’s Republican AG over new rule banning guns on premises
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton has filed a lawsuit seeking to block a ban on firearms at the sprawling State Fair of Texas, one of the state’s biggest annual celebrations.

Court tosses Missouri law that barred police from enforcing federal gun laws
Federal appellate judges have overturned a Missouri law that banned police from enforcing some federal gun laws. The 8th U.S.

This transgender sprinter will compete at the Paralympics
In two weeks, Valentina Petrillo, a transgender sprinter, will compete at the Paralympics. She will run the 200 and 400 meters in the T12 classification for visually impaired athletes in Paris

LGBTQ advocates say Mormon church’s new transgender policies marginalize trans members
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has issued a slew of new guidelines which would limit the role of transgender members in local congregations.

A transgender teen in Massachusetts says other high schoolers beat him at a party
A transgender teenager from Massachusetts is recovering after he was allegedly beaten by other high schoolers at a party.

Providers halt services after court allows Florida to enforce ban on transgender care for minors
A federal appeals court has ruled that a Florida law banning gender-affirming care can be enforced while a legal challenge plays out.

Women’s college in Virginia bars transgender students based on founder’s will from 1900
Sweet Briar College in Virginia has instituted an admissions policy that bars transgender women next school year.

A Christian school appeals its ban on competing after it objected to a transgender player
A Vermont Christian school that is barred from participating in the state sports league after it withdrew its girls basketball team from a playoff game because a transgender student was playing on the opposing team has taken its case to a federal appeals court.

West Virginia, Idaho asking Supreme Court to review rulings allowing transgender athletes to compete
West Virginia and Idaho are asking the U.S. Supreme Court to review rulings that blocked the enforcement of state laws prohibiting transgender athletes from competing in sports.

Texas doctor charged with taking private patient information on transgender care
A Texas doctor who calls himself a whistleblower on transgender care for minors is accused of illegally obtaining information on patients who were not under his care.

A Florida law blocking treatment for transgender children is thrown out by a federal judge
A federal judge has struck down as unconstitutional a 2023 Florida law that blocked gender-affirming care for transgender minors and severely restricted such treatment for adults.

Florida employee who allowed her transgender daughter to play girls volleyball is suspended by school board
A Florida school employee who let her transgender daughter play on her high school’s girls volleyball team is being suspended for 10 days after the district’s board found on Tuesday that she violated state law but said firing her would be too severe.

BLM buys about 3,700 acres of land adjacent to Río Grande del Norte National Monument in New Mexico
The U.S. Bureau of Land Management has announced the acquisition of about 3,700 acres of land adjacent to the Río Grande del Norte National Monument in northern New Mexico near the Colorado border.

Labor board: Home Depot violated labor law by firing an employee who drew ‘BLM’ on work apron
The nation’s labor board ruled on Wednesday that Home Depot violated federal labor law when it fired an employee for refusing to remove the hand-drawn “BLM” acronym for “Black Lives Matter” from a work apron.

Michael Brown’s death transformed a nation and sparked a decade of American reckoning on race
Michael Brown has been dead for a decade. The Black teenager’s death in Ferguson, Missouri, prompted an eruption of protests in the suburban city and gave a boost to a then-nascent Black Lives Matter movement.

Black Lives Matter activist loses lawsuit against Los Angeles police over ‘swatting’ hoax response
A leading Black Lives Matter activist in Los Angeles has lost her lawsuit against the city’s police department over its handling of hoax calls that brought a large law enforcement response to her home.

Texas court denies request to reconsider governor’s pardon in BLM demonstrator’s killing
A Texas appeals court denied a request to consider whether to reverse Gov. Greg Abbott’s pardon of a man who was convicted of killing a Black Lives Matter demonstrator.

Feds look to drastically cut recreational target shooting within Arizona’s Sonoran Desert monument
The federal Bureau of Land Management is looking to drastically reduce the area open to recreational target shooting within Arizona’s Sonoran Desert National Monument.

BLM sets up student relief fund as loan forgiveness stalls
The Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation has launched a new relief fund aimed at Black college students, alumni and dropouts overburdened by mounting education costs and the student loan debt crisis.

Federal court strikes down Missouri investment rule targeted at `woke politics’
A federal judge has struck down a Missouri rule requiring disclosure of “social objectives” in investment decisions.

Broken water main floods Montreal, affecting thousands and prompting boil water advisory
Nearly 150,000 Montreal homes were put under a boil water advisory after a broken water main erupted into a “geyser” that transformed streets into streams, paralyzed traffic and forced people to evacuate from flooded buildings.

Judge accepts insanity plea from man who attacked Virginia congressman’s office with bat
A northern Virginia man who attacked staffers in the district office of U.S. Rep. Gerry Connolly with a baseball bat has been found not guilty by reason of insanity.

Walz’s China experience draws GOP attacks, but Beijing isn’t counting on better ties
Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz has a history with China. And Republicans are seizing on it. The Democratic vice presidential nominee taught in China for a year, went back with exchange students and served on a congressional committee about China’s human rights.

Maryland Rep. Steny Hoyer, former House Democratic leader, is recovering from mild stroke
Maryland Rep. Steny Hoyer, the former House Democratic leader, is recovering after experiencing a mild stroke on Sunday.

Senate rejects legislation that would expand child tax credit and restore business tax breaks
Senators are heading home for the month after failing to advance a bill to expand the child tax credit and restore some business tax breaks.

Democrats look to longtime state Sen. Cleo Fields to flip Louisiana congressional seat blue
Democrats in Louisiana are backing state Sen. Cleo Fields to flip a once reliably GOP congressional seat in an election year that will decide if Republicans hang on to their slim U.S.

Senate passes bill to protect kids online and make tech companies accountable for harmful content
The Senate has passed legislation designed to protect children from dangerous online content. It’s pushing forward with what would be the first major effort by Congress in decades to hold tech companies more accountable for the harm they cause.

Biden signs bill strengthening oversight of crisis-plagued US Bureau of Prisons after AP reporting
President Joe Biden has signed into law a bill strengthening oversight of the crisis-plagued federal Bureau of Prisons after The Associated Press exposed systemic corruption and abuse in the prison system.

Malaysia to investigate leak of Chinese diplomatic note over South China Sea row
Malaysia’s Foreign Ministry has called for a police investigation into a leaked diplomatic note from China over the South China Sea dispute.

Xi offers African leaders more aid as China challenges US-led global order
Dozens of African leaders have gathered in Beijing for a summit that signals China’s influence in a continent that it hopes will be a key ally in pushing back against a U.S.

Biden to dispatch adviser to China as he looks to manage complex US-China relations in final months
President Joe Biden is dispatching his national security adviser Jake Sullivan to China next week. This comes as the White House aims to manage the complicated U.S.

Cambodia says China gifting 2 warships as it finishes work expanding strategically important port
Cambodia’s Defense Ministry says China is giving its navy two warships of the type it has had docked for months at a strategically important base being expanded with Beijing’s funding.

Japan’s defense ministry seeks record budget as it faces growing threat from China
Japan’s Defense Ministry has sought a record 8.5 trillion yen or $59 billion budget for the next year to fortify its deterrence on southwestern islands against China’s increasing threat.

Leaders of China and Vietnam pledge to strengthen political and economic ties
The leaders of China and Vietnam have pledged to further their economic ties and gave a nod to their shared communist ideology during the first visit by Vietnam’s new president to Beijing.

China calls for more support for its Ukraine peace plan created with Brazil
China on Tuesday called for more countries to endorse its peace plan for Ukraine, following a round of diplomacy with Indonesia, Brazil and South Africa to support its roadmap.

Walz’s China experience draws GOP attacks, but Beijing isn’t counting on better ties
Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz has a history with China. And Republicans are seizing on it. The Democratic vice presidential nominee taught in China for a year, went back with exchange students and served on a congressional committee about China’s human rights.

Xi proposes elevation of China-Africa relations to ‘strategic’ level at summit
Chinese President Xi Jinping proposed to the assembled African leaders Thursday that relations with all African countries that have diplomatic ties with China be elevated to the “strategic” level.

China will limit exports of antimony, a mineral used in products from batteries to weapons
China says it will restrict exports of a mineral used in a wide range of products from batteries to weapons.

China’s halt of foreign adoptions leaves questions about pending cases
The Chinese government is ending its intercountry adoption program. The U.S. State Department says it’s seeking clarification how the decision will affect hundreds of American families with pending applications.

Bus crashes into students and parents in eastern China, killing 11 and injuring 13, police say
A bus has crashed into a group of students and their parents in eastern China, killing 11 and injuring 13.

Taiwan Army conducts live-fire exercise with anti-landing missiles amid rising tensions with China
Taiwanese troops practised launching anti-amphibious landing missiles on Monday as part of series of drills to heighten readiness and deter a potential attack from China.

U.S. again beats China in Olympic medals table after they tie for gold
The contest for most gold medals at the Paris Olympics ended in a 40-40 tie between China and the United States.

US envoy to Taiwan declares ties ‘rock solid’ amid military threats from China
The top U.S. envoy to Taiwan has declared support for the island as “rock-solid, principled, and bipartisan.” Raymond F.

China accuses Canada of protectionism over 100% tariffs on electric vehicles
China has accused Canada of protectionism after Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government imposed a 100% tariff on imports of Chinese-made electric vehicles.

China’s economic recovery dragged down by property slump and weak consumption in July
A continued property crisis and weak consumption dragged on China’s economic recovery in July, according to data released by the National Bureau of Statistics.

US military open to escorting Philippine ships in the South China Sea, senior admiral says
Indo-Pacific commander Adm. Samuel Paparo says the U.S. military is open to the possibility of escorting Philippine ships in the disputed South China Sea, depending on consultations under the allies’ 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty.

China opposes US sanctions on firms over alleged ties to Russia’s war efforts
China has expressed its opposition to the latest U.S. sanctions on Chinese companies over their alleged ties to Russia’s war in Ukraine, saying it would adopt necessary measures to safeguard the rights and interests of the country’s businesses.

Taiwan bans concert by Chinese rapper over insulting ‘Taipei, China’ promotional materials
Taiwan has cancelled a planned Taipei concert by a Chinese rapper over his use of the insulting term “Taipei, China” in promotional materials.

Hong Kong court convicts 1 person and acquits 6 others in landmark terrorism trial
A Hong Kong court has convicted one person and acquitted six others over a thwarted bomb plot during anti-government protests in 2019.

Teens accused in London court of ‘extreme right-wing mindset’ and discussing terrorism plans
London prosecutors say two teenagers with an “extreme right-wing mindset” discussed plans to carry out terrorism.

Australia lifts terrorism threat level from ‘possible’ to ‘probable,’ but says no specific threat
The Australian government has elevated the nation’s terrorism threat alert level from “possible” to “probable,” citing concerns about increasing radicalization among young people and community tensions over the Israel-Hamas war.

Irish police investigate potential terrorism motive in attack on army chaplain
Irish police say they are investigating a potential terrorism motive in an attack on a chaplain at an army barracks in County Galway.

Austrian fans react to first Taylor Swift statement after shows cancelled amid foiled terror plot
Austrian Taylor Swift fans kept coming to Corneliusgasse on Thursday weeks after the Vienna concerts of the U.S. artist had been cancelled due to a terror threat, and had mixed opinions on her first statement since.

FBI investigating Trump rally attack as attempted assassination and domestic terror act
The FBI is investigating Saturday’s shooting at a Trump rally in Pennsylvania as an attempted assassination and act of domestic terror.
